# Data-Visualization

Dereliction mask wearing

Your mask aids in the protection of others around you.COVID-19 is primarily transmitted from person to person by respiratory droplets Whenever someone shout, sneeze, speak, cough,  respiratory droplets affect the air. People close from you might breathe within those droplets, or they could land in their mouths or nostrils. Masks are an easy way to reduce these respiratory droplets from getting into the hands of someone else. When worn across the mouth and nose, studies demonstrate that masks minimize spray of droplets Even if you are not sick, you need wear masks. That's because multiple studies found the people who having COVID-19 that never exhibit symptoms have a lower risk of developing symptoms later in life (asymptomatic Those who haven't yet developed symptoms (pre-symptomatic) still can transmit the virus to others). If you're infected but don't display symptoms, wearing mask can help to protect others around you.Face masks are now a common part of daily life, and are required in most indoor settings.,Since the begin of covid 19 there are many people did not believe that face masks will protect us from spread the virus and they under-estimate their role and refused to wearing them and many others who do not take serious and they don’t wear it appropriately, whether they leave their under the chain or uncover their noses or even put on their wrists and usually forgot even when they get into the crowded Places.   Masks should cover of both nose and mouth and fit properly under the chin according to CDC. Whereas the majority of people who use masks do it correctly, that isn't always the case, though. Many people choose to wear their masks down so that only their mouth is covered and their nose is revealed. However, this defeats one of the mask's primary functions. Several experts' research has shown that the nose is extremely prone to COVID-19 virus.  By reducing the spread of droplets as well as aerosols formed when a people sneezes, talks, coughs, breathe or, wearing masks can assist to decrease the spread of COVID-19. According to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC), this is one of the most common ways for the virus to spread.
According to the first idea, people are unable to appropriately appraise low-probability risks. The theory is that when people are faced with the chance of getting COVID-19, they either underreact or overreact, either ignoring the risk or becoming too afraid.
Humans are incapable of effectively assessing risk, particularly when statistics and probability are involved. People seek guidance from their social circles or local leaders in uncertain times, according to research..
“People who agree or disagree with the idea that everyone should wear a mask aren't doing so because they have nefarious purposes. They're standing up for ideals that both sides of the debate hold dear,” Profitts demenstrate .







Those in favor of masks being worn by everyone in any public location may point to scientific consensus indicating masks provide safety – but Profitt says people who opt to go maskless may be suspicious of science's authenticity and feel scientists are constantly changing their ideas. For instance, at initially, they claimed that wearing masks would prevent you from infecting others. They also believe that masks provide protection to the wearer as well. As a result, scientists have had to rely on observational and laboratory research.
Indirect proof comes from other infectious disorders. “Looking at any one paper, it isn't a slam dunk. But, considered as a whole, I'm certain they're working,” Grabowski adds.


 
Confidence in masks grew in June with news about two hair stylists in Missouri who tested positive for COVID-191. Both wore a double-layered cotton face covering or surgical mask while working. And although they passed on the infection to members of their households, their clients seem to have been spared (more than half reportedly declined free tests). Other hints of effectiveness emerged from mass gatherings. At Black Lives Matter protests in US cities, most attendees wore masks. The events did not seem to trigger spikes in infections2, yet the virus ran rampant in late June at a Georgia summer camp, where children who attended were not required to wear face coverings3. Caveats abound: the protests 


were outdoors, which poses a lower risk of COVID-19 spread, whereas the campers shared cabins at night, for example. And because many non-protesters stayed in their homes during the gatherings, that might have reduced virus transmission in the community. Nevertheless, the anecdotal evidence “builds up the picture”, says Theo Vos, a health-policy researcher at the University of Washington in Seattle.
More-rigorous analyses added direct evidence. A preprint study4 posted in early August (and not yet peer reviewed), found that weekly increases in per-capita mortality were four times lower in places where masks were the norm or recommended by the government, compared with other regions. Researchers looked at 200 countries, including Mongolia, which adopted mask use in January and, as of May, had recorded no deaths related to COVID-19.
